# Work with DNS

One of your application's first clients is a company called `ornottodo`. They want to deploy your to-do app into their internal network (which is currently in Azure). The challenge here is that `ornottodo` folks want to have it available by domain name rather than internal IP. 

In this task, you will have to learn how to work with DNS in Azure.  

## Prerequisites

Before completing any task in the module, make sure that you followed all the steps described in the **Environment Setup** topic, in particular: 

1. Ensure you have an [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account and subscription.

2. Create a resource group called *“mate-resources”* in the Azure subscription.

3. In the *“mate-resources”* resource group, create a storage account (any name) and a *“task-artifacts”* container.

4. Install [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4) on your computer. All tasks in this module use Powershell 7. To run it in the terminal, execute the following command: 
    ```
    pwsh
    ```

5. Install [Azure module for PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azure-powershell?view=azps-11.3.0): 
    ```
    Install-Module -Name Az -Repository PSGallery -Force
    ```
If you are a Windows user, before running this command, please also run the following: 
    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
    ```

6. Log in to your Azure account using PowerShell:
    ```
    Connect-AzAccount -TenantId <your Microsoft Entra ID tenant id>
    ```

## Requirements

In this task, you will need to update the existing PowerShell script `task.ps1`. The original script deploys 2 virtual machines: 

- `webserver`, used to host the todo web app. It's deployed in a subnet `web`, without public IP.
- `jumpbox`, used as a dedicated virtual machine for management of `webserver`. It is deployed to a separate subnet, has a public IP, and allows connecting to it through SSH.  

In this task, you need to deploy a private DNS zone `todo.ornottodo` and create a DNS record in it: 

1. Review the script `task.ps1`.  

2. Add deployment of private DNS zone `or.nottodo`. To deploy a private DNS zone, use comandlet [New-AzPrivateDnsZone](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.privatedns/new-azprivatednszone?view=azps-12.0.0). 

3. Don't forget to add linking of newly-created DNS zone to the virtual network, where VMs are deployed you can do it with comandlet [New-AzPrivateDnsVirtualNetworkLink](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.privatedns/new-azprivatednsvirtualnetworklink?view=azps-12.0.0). Make sure to enable [auto-registration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/dns/private-dns-autoregistration) feature when creating a link. 

4. Add creating of a `CNAME` record in the private DNS zone — use comandlet [New-AzPrivateDnsRecordSet](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.privatedns/new-azprivatednsrecordset?view=azps-12.0.0). `CNAME` should point domain `todo.or.nottodo` to the domain, `webserver` virtual machine will get with auto-registration in the private DNS zone. 

5. When the script is ready, run it to deploy resources to your subscription.

6. To test yourself, connect to the `jumbox` VM with SSH, and test with curl, if you can get to the todo web app by its domain name `todo.or.nottodo` (app will be running on `port 8080`, so you will need to use the following URL for curl: `http://todo.or.nottodo:8080/`). 

7. Run artifacts generation script `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1`.

8. Test yourself using the script `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`.

9. Make sure that changes to both `task.ps1` and `result.json` are committed to the repo, and submit the solution for review. 

10. When the solution is validated, delete the resources you deployed with the Powershell script — you won't need them for the next tasks. 


## How to complete tasks in this module 

Tasks in this module are relying on 2 PowerShell scripts: 

- `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` generates the task “artifacts” and uploads them to cloud storage. An “artifact” is evidence of a task completed by you. Each task will have its own script, which will gather the required artifacts. The script also adds a link to the generated artifact in the `artifacts.json` file in this repository — make sure to commit changes to this file after you run the script. 
- `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` validates the artifacts generated by the first script. It loads information about the task artifacts from the `artifacts.json` file.

Here is how to complete tasks in this module:

1. Clone task repository;

2. Make sure you completed the steps, described in the Prerequisites section;

3. Complete the task described in the Requirements section;

4. Run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` to generate task artifacts. The script will update the file `artifacts.json` in this repo;

5. Run `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` to test yourself. If tests are failing — follow the recommendations from the test script error message to fix or re-deploy your infrastructure. When you are ready to test yourself again — **re-generate the artifacts** (step 4) and re-run tests again; 

6. When all tests will pass — commit your changes and submit the solution for review. 

Pro tip: if you are stuck with any of the implementation steps, run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` and `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`. The validation script might give you a hint on what to do.  

